Status of Embedded Systems in the Philippines
The Philippines has a similar level of embedded systems development as some of the developed countries. Embedded systems are important for various industries in the country such as telecommunications, consumer electronics, automotive, healthcare, and industrial automation.
The country has a growing demand for embedded systems and related technologies. There are many local and foreign companies in the Philippines that design, develop, and manufacture embedded systems. They help in advancing embedded technology and providing solutions to both local and international markets.
The field of embedded systems in the Philippines has received more attention in research and development in recent years. Academic institutions and research organizations are engaged in exploring and creating new technologies, algorithms, and applications related to embedded systems. The Philippines shows potential in the embedded systems industry with increasing investments, research activities, and a focus on technological development.

Impact of Embedded Systems on Society and Economy. 
The impact of embedded systems on society and the economy can be significant and wide-ranging. The following are some key areas where embedded systems have an impact:
1. Communications – small, economical and multifunctional communication devices such as mobile phones have multiple embedded systems that handle different functions like the operating system, camera and user interface that supports various utilities like audio, camera and internet. 
2. Consumer Electronics – many consumer electronics use embedded systems to provide features, collect input and control the devices. Home appliances and security systems are examples of how embedded systems can make them more reliable and efficient.
3. Automotive Vehicles – modern vehicles use embedded systems to control various functions and optimize for performance and safety. They collect data from sensors and adjust the engine, transmission, braking, air bags and other systems accordingly.
4. Healthcare / Medical Equipment – Embedded systems are used in medical equipment to perform sensing and control functions, as well as user interfaces. They are found in imaging devices, monitoring machines, and diagnostic tools. The IoT is creating new opportunities for embedded systems in healthcare.

Relationship between IOT and Embedded Systems 
Internet of Things (IoT) devices and embedded systems are both types of technology that are used to connect physical objects with digital networks. They can both gather, process, and send data to do various functions. However, they have some differences that should be considered when choosing which one is more suitable for a specific use.
Similarities between IoT and Embedded Systems
With the IoT becoming more popular and common in the modern era of technology, IoT and embedded systems both have the ability to connect physical things with digital networks. This enables them to gather, process, and send data to do various functions such as checking environmental factors or operating home devices from a distance. 
An example of these connections are the cameras in mobile phones, while taking a picture can be achieved using an embedded system, IoT technology is used to send the photos via Bluetooth or in cloud storage applications. Another example is air conditioning (AC), where its cooling mechanism uses a dedicated embedded system, and the usage of a phone to communicate with the AC can be achieved using IoT technology.

Differences between IoT and Embedded Systems
While IoT and embedded systems can function altogether, there are differences between IoT and embedded system and these are the following:
Embedded systems use customized hardware that are mostly wired and software that can be combined to perform one specific task, while IoT uses wireless communication protocols such as Wi-Fi or Bluetooth to connect with other devices and the internet. 
IoT can be updated using network capabilities, but embedded systems cannot be updated once programmed to only perform their desired tasks and nothing else.
Embedded systems have limited resources and lesser computing power, memory, and peripherals. On the other hand, IoT uses cloud-based online resources that are more complex than the former.
Relationship between Cloud Computing and Embedded Systems
Cloud computing and embedded systems are two different concepts in the field of technology. Cloud computing as defined by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is: “A model for enabling convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage applications and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction”. Embedded systems use cloud computing to enhance their capabilities by providing them with more resources, data, services and updates over the internet, thus making cloud computing systems complex. 
The advantages of embedded systems on cloud computing is that embedded systems can benefit from the secure connectivity of the cloud with the help of certificates of authentication and cryptographic keys that can encrypt data from embedded systems, and cloud computing also supports devices that use both embedded systems and IoT. However, the disadvantage of this is the potential for security threats since cloud computing can be vulnerable to attacks that can affect the performance of shared resources and cloud computing can face downtime and internet connectivity issues. 
